{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 SourceCodePro-Regular;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green116\blue0;\red100\green56\blue32;\red196\green26\blue22;
\red170\green13\blue145;\red63\green110\blue116;\red46\green13\blue110;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12160\viewh12560\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.\
\

\f1 \cf2 \CocoaLigature0 //\cf0 \
\pard\tx528\pardeftab528\pardirnatural
\cf2 //  ViewController.m\cf0 \
\cf2 //  TextKit_LineNumbers\cf0 \
\cf2 //\cf0 \
\cf2 //  Created by Mark Alldritt on 2013-10-11.\cf0 \
\cf2 //  Copyright (c) 2013 Late Night Software Ltd. All rights reserved.\cf0 \
\cf2 //\cf0 \
\
\cf3 #import \cf4 "ViewController.h"\cf3 \
\cf0 \
\cf5 @interface\cf0  \cf6 ViewController\cf0  ()\
\
\cf5 @end\cf0 \
\
\cf5 @implementation\cf0  ViewController\
\
- (\cf5 void\cf0 )viewDidLoad\
\{\
    [\cf5 super\cf0  \cf7 viewDidLoad\cf0 ];\
	\cf2 // Do any additional setup after loading the view, typically from a nib.\cf0 \
\}\
\
- (\cf5 void\cf0 )didReceiveMemoryWarning\
\{\
    [\cf5 super\cf0  \cf7 didReceiveMemoryWarning\cf0 ];\
    \cf2 // Dispose of any resources that can be recreated.\cf0 \
\}\
\
\cf5 @end\cf0 \

\fs22 \
\
\
This is a 
\fs28 test
\fs22  of 
\fs36 multiple
\fs22  font 
\fs48 sizes
\fs22  within a 
\fs96 single
\fs22  paragraph.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs26 \cf0 \CocoaLigature1 * A Project Gutenberg Canada Ebook *\
\
This ebook is made available at no cost and with very few\
restrictions. These restrictions apply only if (1) you make\
a change in the ebook (other than alteration for different\
display devices), or (2) you are making commercial use of\
the ebook. If either of these conditions applies, please\
check gutenberg.ca/links/licence.html before proceeding.\
\
This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be under\
copyright in some countries. If you live outside Canada, check your\
country's copyright laws. IF THE BOOK IS UNDER COPYRIGHT\
IN YOUR COUNTRY, DO NOT DOWNLOAD OR REDISTRIBUTE THIS FILE.\
\
Title: The Adventures of the Chevalier De La Salle\
   and his Companions, in their explorations of the\
   prairies, forests, lakes, and rivers, of the New World,\
   and their interviews with the savage tribes,\
   two hundred years ago.\
Author: John Stevens Cabot Abbott (1805-1877)\
Date of first publication: 1875\
Place and date of edition used as base for this ebook:\
   New York: Dodd, Mead & Company, 1875 (First Edition)\
Date first posted: 4 February 2008\
Date last updated: 4 February 2008\
Project Gutenberg Canada ebook #75\
\
This ebook was produced by: Mark C. Orton, Beth Trapaga\
& the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdpcanada.net\
\
\
\
\
_AMERICAN PIONEERS AND PATRIOTS_.\
\
\
THE ADVENTURES OF THE CHEVALIER DE LA SALLE\
\
AND HIS COMPANIONS,\
\
IN THEIR EXPLORATIONS OF THE PRAIRIES, FORESTS, LAKES, AND RIVERS,\
\
OF THE NEW WORLD, AND THEIR INTERVIEWS WITH THE SAVAGE TRIBES,\
\
TWO HUNDRED YEARS AGO.\
\
\
\
By\
\
JOHN S. C. ABBOTT.\
\
\
\
NEW YORK:\
DODD, MEAD & COMPANY,\
Publishers\
\
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1875, by\
DODD & MEAD,\
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.\
\
\
\
\
                                   TO\
\
           THE INHABITANTS OF THE GREAT VALLEY OF THE WEST,\
                       WHOSE MAGNIFICENT REALMS\
        LA SALLE AND HIS COMPANIONS WERE THE FIRST TO EXPLORE,\
                             THIS VOLUME\
                    IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED, BY\
\
                          JOHN S. C. ABBOTT.\
\
\
\
\
PREFACE.\
\
\
There is no one of the Pioneers of this continent whose achievements\
equal those of the Chevalier Robert de la Salle. He passed over\
thousands of miles of lakes and rivers in the birch canoe. He traversed\
countless leagues of prairie and forest, on foot, guided by the\
moccasined Indian, threading trails which the white man's foot had\
never trod, and penetrating the villages and the wigwams of savages,\
where the white man's face had never been seen.\
\
Fear was an emotion La Salle never experienced. His adventures were\
more wild and wondrous than almost any recorded in the tales of\
chivalry. As time is rapidly obliterating from our land the footprints\
of the savage, it is important that these records of his strange\
existence should be perpetuated.\
\
Fortunately we have full and accurate accounts of these explorations,\
in the journals of Messrs. Marquette, Hennepin, and Joliet. We have\
still more minute narratives, in _Etablissement de la Foix_, par le P.\
Chretien Le Clercq, Paris 1691; _Dernieres D\'e8couvertes_, par le\
Chevalier de Tonti, Paris 1697; _Journal Historique_, par M. Joutel,\
Paris 1713.\
\
For the incidents in the last fatal expedition, to establish a colony\
at the mouth of the Mississippi, and the wonderful land tour of more\
than two thousand miles from the sea-coast of Texas to Quebec, through\
the territories of hundreds of tribes, we have the narratives of Father\
Christian Le Clercq, the narrative of Father Anastasias Douay, and the\
minute and admirably written almost daily journal of Monsieur Joutel,\
in his _Dernier Voyage_. Both Douay and Joutel accompanied this\
expedition from its commencement to its close.\
\
In these adventures the reader will find a more vivid description of\
the condition of this continent, and the character of its inhabitants\
two hundred years ago, than can be found anywhere else. Sir Walter\
Scott once remarked, that no one could take more pleasure in reading\
his romances, than he had taken in writing them. In this volume we have\
the romance of truth.\
\
If the writer can judge of the pleasure of the reader, from the intense\
interest he has experienced in following these adventurers through\
their perilous achievements, this narrative will prove to be one of\
extraordinary interest.\
\
                                            JOHN S. C. ABBOTT.\
\
Fair Haven, Connecticut.\
}